

Dwivedi2014 - Crohns IL6 Disease model - Anti-IL6R Antibody

This model is comprised of four models:  

  * [[BIOMD0000000534]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000534) Healthy Volunteer model   

  * [[BIOMD0000000535]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000535) Crohn's Disease - IL-6 Antibody   

  * [[BIOMD0000000536]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000536) Crohn's Disease - sgp130FC
  * [[BIOMD0000000537]](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/BIOMD0000000537) Crohn's Disease - IL-6Ra Antibody   

Possible avenues for Interleukin-6 (IL-6) inhibition in treating Crohn's
disease are compared here. Each model refers to separate ligands. The system
simulates differential activity of the ligands on the signalling of IL-6. This
affects Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) activity on
the production of biomarker C-Reactive Protein (CRP) expression.  
Figures referring to this Crohn's Disease model are 3a, 4d, 4e, 4f and 5b.  

This model is described in the article:

[A multiscale model of interleukin-6-mediated immune regulation in Crohn's
disease and its application in drug discovery and
development.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24402116)

Dwivedi G, Fitz L, Hegen M, Martin SW, Harrold J, Heatherington A, Li C.

CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol 2014; 3: e89

Abstract:

In this study, we have developed a multiscale systems model of interleukin
(IL)-6-mediated immune regulation in Crohn's disease, by integrating
intracellular signaling with organ-level dynamics of pharmacological markers
underlying the disease. This model was linked to a general pharmacokinetic
model for therapeutic monoclonal antibodies and used to comparatively study
various biotherapeutic strategies targeting IL-6-mediated signaling in Crohn's
disease. Our work illustrates techniques to develop mechanistic models of
disease biology to study drug-system interaction. Despite a sparse training
data set, predictions of the model were qualitatively validated by clinical
biomarker data from a pilot trial with tocilizumab. Model-based analysis
suggests that strategies targeting IL-6, IL-6R?, or the IL-6/sIL-6R? complex
are less effective at suppressing pharmacological markers of Crohn's than dual
targeting the IL-6/sIL-6R? complex in addition to IL-6 or IL-6R?. The
potential value of multiscale system pharmacology modeling in drug discovery
and development is also discussed.CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology
(2014) 3, e89; doi:10.1038/psp.2013.64; advance online publication 8 January
2014.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000537](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000537).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

